# View resource

## Planning

-  From a UI perspective, a resource is a book, periodical, or other types to be added in the future.
   -  UI doesn't care that the backend may split the data, the interface returns the right structure for the resource type.
   -  Declare a base resource interface, then interfaces for book and periodical that extend it.
   -  Alternatively, consider returning an data structure that has a resource member with base resource data and additional fields for the type.
   -  Alternatively, resource contains a subtype member that may be the extended fields for the subtypes; select a subtype component to display and pass that member. This sounds saner, I think.
-  All resources have certain information in common
   -  Make that a component to avoid duplicating those parts on all resource components
-  Consider using json-server as the backend
   -  Use an adapter to fetch resource + book or resource + periodical and present as the backend would to the application; change adapter when/if I build a backend

### Proposed interface to backend

```typescript
interface Book {};
interface Periodical {};
interface Resource {
  resourceId: string; // uuid v4
  resourceTypeCode: ResourceType;
  ...
  book?: Book;
  periodical?: Periodical;
}
```

### Notes, questions, etc.

-  Start with static state for four resources
-  Show a list of resources at the top; view resource component beneath it
   -  List is throwaway to get started; will replace with find in next feature
-  Which UI library to use?
-  Make it look better
-  What should I test on the components; try to write test as the components start to come together

**Future**

-  I'd like to use `useReducer` if I can because I like that data access style; also more Redux like
-  Use json-server as a backend until I have a real one?

## Plan

-  2.1 - Define Book, Periodical, Resource; set up a small dataset
-  2.2 - View resource; choose a UI toolkit
-  2.3 - Book component
-  2.4 - Periodical component
