# Initial view for resources

## Story: Display a list of resources

I want to create a base view for resources that displays the data on the screen so users can see information about the resource.

-  When a user navigates to the page, it should display all the resources
-  When the resource is a book, the resource display should include book information only
-  When the resources is a periodical, the resource display should include periodical information only

### Planning notes

-  Initially, just load the data from `db/data.json` into an array
-  Base view is ugly at this stage, but improvements are coming
-  Key goal here is to get a component on the page with some data so I have the basics working as it should

### Dev notes

-  create `src/components` (not sure this is the best long term strategy, but I'll start like this and rearrange later)

   -  `ViewResource.tsx` (I'm staring with a component that will display a single resource)
   -  I'm going to use the `Resource` interface and probably some others
   -  Write the component JSX
   -  Install dev dependencies eslint, prettier, and eslint-config-prettier (because formatting is easier)
      **COMMIT: CHORE: add eslint, prettier, eslint-config-prettier**
   -  Copy `.eslintrc.json` and `.prettierrc.json` from another project that I set up my way

-  I need an easy way to get data so...

   -  create `src/temp` (place to hold stuff I want to eliminate later)
   -  `resources.ts` -> exports `JSON.parse()` of a copy of `data.json`
   -  now I can just import it

-  I need a component to get the data and `map()` it

   -  `ListResources.tsx`
   -  `map()` resources to display `ViewResource` elements for each resource

-  Now put it in the App

Issues

-  eslint complains about spacing and other details
   -  Save files (prettier handles spacing) and adjust other issues
-  `publishedDate.toString` is not a function (in dev tools)
   -  It's a string when it should be a Date
   -  In `ListResources`, ensure it's a Date
-  add some space between resources
-  format date as mmm yyyy (using `Intl.DateTimeFormat().format`)

**COMMIT: FEAT: display a list of resources**
Reference: Story: Display a list of resources

## Story: choose a UI library

I want to find a UI library that gives me UI widgets that are better looking and more capable than building directly on default controls.

UI library requirements

-  Looks good
-  Accessibility
-  Has UI controls I'm likely to need
-  Customizeable

**References**

-  https://www.sitepoint.com/popular-react-ui-component-libraries/
-  https://blog.logrocket.com/top-11-react-ui-libraries-kits/
-  https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-libraries/

Based on the first two, my short list is probably MUI, React Bootstrap, ReactStrap, PrimeReact. Third link recommends MUI, Chakra UI, Mantine.

-  Bootstrap options seem rather light on features. I'm not particularly thrilled by them compared to others.
-  MUI is familiar. I've used Material Design before. I am not excited about it's locked in styling that's hard to change.
-  Mantine and Chakra are both nice looking (slick) libraries that share a common base (emotion). Mantine's community seems small. Chakra is smaller than MUI, but decently sized (based on npmjs weekly downloads).
-  PrimeReact doesn't seem to be based on emotion, but is still slick and comparable in terms of flexibility. Community size is a concern. I'm also less confident about its accessibility chops.

I'm leaning toward Chakra. It requires more code (CSS-in-JS model) and will require more learning, but it's definitely stronger than Bootstrap or MUI for themeing and similar customization and has a lot of good accessibility tips in the docs.

**COMMIT: DOCS: choose a UI library** Reference: Choose a UI library

### Install Chakra

[Chakra getting started page](https://chakra-ui.com/getting-started)

-  `npm i @chakra-ui/react @emotion/react @emotion/styled framer-motion`
-  May be other components based on their [CRA](https://chakra-ui.com/getting-started/cra-guide), but they may be related to advanced theming
-  In `index.tsx`, wrap the `<App />` in the Chakra provider.
-  What does it look like?
   -  Same basic thing as before, but I see Chakra styling happening in the HTML and the Chakra wrapping in the React Dev Tools Components view.

**COMMIT: STYLE: add Chakra UI; wrap App** Reference: Add Chakra UI

## Story: Show a list of resources

I want to show a selectable list of resources so the user can select a single resource easily.

-  When the user navigates to the page, it should display a list of resource types and titles
-  When the user clicks on a resource title, it should display the resource below the list

### Notes

I'm thinking I'll use Chakra's table for the list. Chakra's table is just a table. They suggest using React Table (TanStack, >1m dl/wk) to provide data table capabilities. React Table is a "headless" UI toolkit--it provides the features but expects someone else to provide the UI.

-  MUI's data table is a paid addon
-  Bootstrap doesn't have one
-  PrimeReact and Mantine have data tables. Mantine's markup seems to use more standard HTML elements, though I suspect Chakra's elements are thin wrappers.

So, I don't see a major reason to rethink my choice.

### Dev notes

For now, I'll just map the data to render the table rows and add a link to select. React Table can come later.

-  `ResourcesList` will be the list of resources; accepts resource data
   -  Columns: title, type, published date, lendable flag
-  `ListResources`
   -  Show `ResourcesList`; for now, comment out resources map
   -  I need a couple of utility functions
      -  `src/utils.tsx`
         -  `booleanToYesNo` -> return a boolean value as Yes or No string
         -  `dateAsDate` -> return a Date or string as a Date (assumes date passed is a valid date string if a string)
-  I want to click something and see the resource details (`ViewResource`)
   -  I want a row click handler to set the selected resource id (state in `ListResources`)
      -  Need to figure out type on the event target so I can get the key attribute
   -  In `ListResources`, before rendering, get the selected resource by resource id
   -  Render `ViewResource` when a resource is selected (not when it isn't)
   -  Code is currently in ResourcesList, but state needs to lift to parent; pass `setSelectedResourceId` to `ResourcesList`
-  Initial working version
   -  Click on resource displays resource id
   -  If none selected, displays none selected

**COMMIT: FEAT: use a clickable resource list to select a specific resource** Reference: clickable resource v1

Replace resource id with `ViewResource`

-  Replace the `<p>` with resource id with a `ViewResource`
-  Replace the `<p>` with "nothing selected" with null

**COMMIT: FEAT: display resource data when a resource is selected** Reference: clickable resource v2

## Story: Replace Chakra with Mantine

I want to replace Chakra with Mantine because I misread what Chakra offered.

### Notes

Discovery: When I was looking at Chakra, I ended up looking at their paid components page without noticing, which explains why I thought they had a data table. (They do, for a price.) In fact, many components I'd considered baseline are not part of their free package.

So, PrimeReact or Mantine?

| Component   | PrimeReact                        | Mantine                                         |
| ----------- | --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Data Table  | traditional data table component  | build the table and attach bits                 |
| Card        | layout is limited; header, footer | composed of a series of sections and components |
| Dropdown    | traditional dropdown I'd expect   | select is traditional dropdown                  |
| Multiselect | supports lazy loading             | not seeing lazy loading                         |

PrimeReact's components usually require less or no more code. Mantine seems to build in more flexibility. Based on some examination, the main weakness for Mantine is the complexity of building a data table. I like their docs better, though.

I'm also uncertain about community. Mantine has a larger following on GH (12.8k vs. 3k). In npmjs, PrimeReact leads in weekly downloads (62.3k vs 33k).

Despite my reservations about data tables, I think I'll replace Chakra with Mantine and consider using React Table with Mantine (which is doable and seems like a good combo).

I also want to switch from CRA to Vite, but I will do that as a separate effort after finishing up this work. (Set up 2.2.1 to outline that plan.)

### Dev notes

-  Uninstall Chakra parts
   -  `npm uninstall @chakra-ui/react @emotion/react @emotion/styled framer-motion`
-  Install Mantine parts
   -  `npm install @mantine/hooks @mantine/core @mantine/form`
   -  I don't need forms yet, but I've looked at it an know I'll want it
   -  I can add other parts later when/if I need them
-  Fix broken components
   -  `ResourcesList`
      -  Remove Chakra imports
      -  Convert elements from Chakra to standard HTML
      -  Move row generation to a const before the return (pattern Mantine shows)
         -  This isn't a major change, just gets the `map` out of the return's JSX so it's easier to read
      -  Import Mantine `Table`
      -  Add `formatDate_MMM_YYYY` to `utils` and use it in `map`
   -  Use date format function in `ViewResource` too
   -  Clean up `ListResources` (remove commented block not needed)
   -  Replace `ChakraProvider` with `MantineProvider` in `index.tsx`

And it looks like it's working.

As a side note, requires a permissive CSP because it uses inline styles. I'll need to find something to add to the build process that will generate hashes for them because I want to be able to support a less-unsafe CSP

**COMMIT: STYLES | REFACTOR: replace Chakra with Mantine; small refactors to reduce duplication** Reference: Chakra -> Mantine
