# Find resource

## Planning

Users should be able to search for resources by title or author. Periodicals don't have authors.

I want to get a larger data set to support searching. I've downloaded XML from Harvard's catalog API for a handful of Japanese authors. I'll convert to JSON and write a little node process to extract parts of the data I want and produce a clean book record for my purposes. Example URIs:

-  https://api.lib.harvard.edu/v2/items?title=japan%20or%20japanese%20not%20harvard

After the fact, I've figured out `https://api.lib.harvard.edu/v2/items.dc.json?<query>` makes a better starting point. Dublin Core format in JSON is much easier to read that Mods format in XML, but I've already built the XML-based parser to get a subset of data I want, so keeping it for now. I may come back later and extract data in DC-JSON and rebuild the data prep. For now, I have a chunk of data I can use.

Then I'll set up json-server to act as a simple backend. I may stick to books for now and add other types later.

Set up a search component and put it on the page.
Search -> list of results -> details

I'll need to set up a hook to fetch data. In tests, I can mock `global.fetch` (reference: https://reactjs.org/docs/testing-recipes.html#data-fetching) or mock the hook that gets the data.

Tests (high level)

-  search component renders on the page
-  enter data and search -> no result gets a sane result
-  enter data and search -> results gets a list
-  select item on list gets details for that item

## Plan

-  3.1 - Prepare data
-  3.2 - Set up json-server
-  3.3 - Get data from json-server
   -  pull 10 results from json-server and pass to existing `ListResources`

**COMMIT: DOCS: plan find resource feature** Reference:plan find resource

Renamed this branch to `get-data-from-api` and narrowed scope because it was getting large. Will do the following as a new branch.

-  3.3 - Search component and get results from json-server
   -  state needs to be in `App` and pass to components
   -  tests
-  3.4 - Custom hook to get data
